<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Songs</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>Songs of Colonization</h1>
      <h2>Contents</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>
            <a href="#song1">1. THE BUFFALO HUNTERS</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song2">2. THE COWMAN'S PRAYER</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song3">3. HERE'S TO THE RANGER!</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song4">4. TEXAS RANGERS</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song5">5. NEW NATIONAL ANTHEM</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song6">6. WESTWARD HO</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song7">7. SIOUX INDIANS</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song8">8. THE "METIS" SONG OF THE BUFFALO HUNTERS</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#song9">9. THE OLD SCOUT'S LAMENT</a>
         </li>
      </ul>
      <hr/>
      <h2 id="song1">THE BUFFALO HUNTERS</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            Come all you pretty girls, to you these lines I'll write,<br/>
            We are going to the range in which we take delight;<br/>
            We are going on the range as we poor hunters do,<br/>
            And the tender-footed fellows can stay at home with you.
        </p>
         <p>
            It's all of the day long as we go tramping round<br/>
            In search of the buffalo that we may shoot him down;<br/>
            Our guns upon our shoulders, our belts of forty rounds,<br/>
            We send them up Salt River to some happy hunting grounds.
        </p>
         <p>
            Our game, it is the antelope, the buffalo, wolf, and deer,<br/>
            Who roam the wide prairies without a single fear;<br/>
            We rob him of his robe and think it is no harm,<br/>
            To buy us food and clothing to keep our bodies warm.
        </p>
         <p>
            The buffalo, he is the noblest of the band,<br/>
            He sometimes rejects in throwing up his hand.<br/>
            His shaggy main thrown forward, his head raised to the sky,<br/>
            He seems to say, "We're coming, boys; so hunter, mind your eye."
        </p>
         <p>
            Our fires are made of mesquite roots, our beds are on the ground;<br/>
            Our houses made of buffalo hides, we make them tall and round;<br/>
            Our furniture is the camp kettle, the coffee pot, and pan,<br/>
            Our chuck it is both bread and meat, mingled well with sand.
        </p>
         <p>
            Our neighbors are the Cheyennes, the 'Rapahoes, and Sioux,<br/>
            Their mode of navigation is a buffalo-hide canoe.<br/>
            And when they come upon you they take you unaware,<br/>
            And such a peculiar way they have of raising hunter's hair.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song2">THE COWMAN'S PRAYER</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            Now, O Lord, please lend me thine ear,<br/>
            The prayer of a cattleman to hear,<br/>
            No doubt the prayers may seem strange,<br/>
            But I want you to bless our cattle range.
        </p>
         <p>
            Bless the round-ups year by year,<br/>
            And don't forget the growing steer;<br/>
            Water the lands with brooks and rills<br/>
            For my cattle that roam on a thousand hills.
        </p>
         <p>
            Prairie fires, won't you please stop?<br/>
            Let thunder roll and water drop.<br/>
            It frightens me to see the smoke;<br/>
            Unless it's stopped, I'll go dead broke.
        </p>
         <p>
            As you, O Lord, my herd behold,<br/>
            It represents a sack of gold;<br/>
            I think at least five cents a pound<br/>
            Will be the price of beef the year around.
        </p>
         <p>
            One thing more and then I'm through,--<br/>
            Instead of one calf, give my cows two.<br/>
            I may pray different from other men<br/>
            But I've had my say, and now, Amen.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song3">HERE'S TO THE RANGER!</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            He leaves unplowed his furrow,<br/>
            He leaves his books unread<br/>
            For a life of tented freedom<br/>
            By lure of danger led.<br/>
            He's first in the hour of peril,<br/>
            He's gayest in the dance,<br/>
            Like the guardsman of old England<br/>
            Or the beau sabreur of France.
        </p>
         <p>
            He stands our faithful bulwark<br/>
            Against our savage foe;<br/>
            Through lonely woodland places<br/>
            Our children come and go;<br/>
            Our flocks and herds untended<br/>
            O'er hill and valley roam,<br/>
            The Ranger in the saddle<br/>
            Means peace for us at home.
        </p>
         <p>
            Behold our smiling farmsteads<br/>
            Where waves the golden grain!<br/>
            Beneath yon tree, earth's bosom<br/>
            Was dark with crimson stain.<br/>
            That bluff the death-shot echoed<br/>
            Of husband, father, slain!<br/>
            God grant such sight of horror<br/>
            We never see again!
        </p>
         <p>
            The gay and hardy Ranger,<br/>
            His blanket on the ground,<br/>
            Lies by the blazing camp-fire<br/>
            While song and tale goes round;<br/>
            And if one voice is silent,<br/>
            One fails to hear the jest,<br/>
            They know his thoughts are absent<br/>
            With her who loves him best.
        </p>
         <p>
            Our state, her sons confess it,<br/>
            That queenly, star-crowned brow,<br/>
            Has darkened with the shadow<br/>
            Of lawlessness ere now;<br/>
            And men of evil passions<br/>
            On her reproach have laid,<br/>
            But that the ready Ranger<br/>
            Rode promptly to her aid.
        </p>
         <p>
            He may not win the laurel<br/>
            Nor trumpet tongue of fame;<br/>
            But beauty smiles upon him,<br/>
            And ranchmen bless his name.<br/>
            Then here's to the Texas Ranger,<br/>
            Past, present and to come!<br/>
            Our safety from the savage,<br/>
            The guardian of our home.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song4">TEXAS RANGERS</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            Come, all you Texas rangers, wherever you may be,<br/>
            I'll tell you of some troubles that happened unto me.<br/>
            My name is nothing extra, so it I will not tell,--<br/>
            And here's to all you rangers, I am sure I wish you well.
        </p>
         <p>
            It was at the age of sixteen that I joined the jolly band,<br/>
            We marched from San Antonio down to the Rio Grande.<br/>
            Our captain he informed us, perhaps he thought it right,<br/>
            "Before we reach the station, boys, you'll surely have to fight."
        </p>
         <p>
            And when the bugle sounded our captain gave command,<br/>
            "To arms, to arms," he shouted, "and by your horses stand."<br/>
            I saw the smoke ascending, it seemed to reach the sky;<br/>
            The first thought that struck me, my time had come to die.
        </p>
         <p>
            I saw the Indians coming, I heard them give the yell;<br/>
            My feelings at that moment, no tongue can ever tell.<br/>
            I saw the glittering lances, their arrows round me flew,<br/>
            And all my strength it left me and all my courage too.
        </p>
         <p>
            We fought full nine hours before the strife was o'er,<br/>
            The like of dead and wounded I never saw before.<br/>
            And when the sun was rising and the Indians they had fled,<br/>
            We loaded up our rifles and counted up our dead.
        </p>
         <p>
            And all of us were wounded, our noble captain slain,<br/>
            And the sun was shining sadly across the bloody plain.<br/>
            Sixteen as brave rangers as ever roamed the West<br/>
            Were buried by their comrades with arrows in their breast.
        </p>
         <p>
            'Twas then I thought of mother, who to me in tears did say,<br/>
            "To you they are all strangers, with me you had better stay."<br/>
            I thought that she was childish, the best she did not know;<br/>
            My mind was fixed on ranging and I was bound to go.
        </p>
         <p>
            Perhaps you have a mother, likewise a sister too,<br/>
            And maybe you have a sweetheart to weep and mourn for you;<br/>
            If that be your situation, although you'd like to roam,<br/>
            I'd advise you by experience, you had better stay at home.
        </p>
         <p>
            I have seen the fruits of rambling, I know its hardships well;<br/>
            I have crossed the Rocky Mountains, rode down the streets of hell;<br/>
            I have been in the great Southwest where the wild Apaches roam,<br/>
            And I tell you from experience you had better stay at home.
        </p>
         <p>
            And now my song is ended; I guess I have sung enough;<br/>
            The life of a ranger I am sure is very tough.<br/>
            And here's to all you ladies, I am sure I wish you well,<br/>
            I am bound to go a-ranging, so ladies, fare you well.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song5">NEW NATIONAL ANTHEM</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            My country, 'tis of thee,<br/>
            Land where things used to be<br/>
            So cheap, we croak.<br/>
            Land of the mavericks,<br/>
            Land of the puncher's tricks,<br/>
            Thy culture-inroad pricks<br/>
            The hide of this peeler-bloke.
        </p>
         <p>
            Some of the punchers swear<br/>
            That what they eat and wear<br/>
            Takes all their calves.<br/>
            Others vow that they<br/>
            Eat only once a day<br/>
            Jerked beef and prairie hay<br/>
            Washed down with tallow salves.
        </p>
         <p>
            These salty-dogs but crave<br/>
            To pull them out the grave<br/>
            Just one Kiowa spur.<br/>
            They know they still will dine<br/>
            On flesh and beef the time;<br/>
            But give us, Lord divine,<br/>
            One "hen-fruit stir."
        </p>
         <p>
            Our father's land, with thee,<br/>
            Best trails of liberty,<br/>
            We chose to stop.<br/>
            We don't exactly like<br/>
            So soon to henceward hike,<br/>
            But hell, we'll take the pike<br/>
            If this don't stop.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song6">WESTWARD HO</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            I love not Colorado<br/>
            Where the faro table grows,<br/>
            And down the desperado<br/>
            The rippling Bourbon flows;
        </p>
         <p>
            Nor seek I fair Montana<br/>
            Of bowie-lunging fame;<br/>
            The pistol ring of fair Wyoming<br/>
            I leave to nobler game.
        </p>
         <p>
            Sweet poker-haunted Kansas<br/>
            In vain allures the eye;<br/>
            The Nevada rough has charms enough<br/>
            Yet its blandishments I fly.
        </p>
         <p>
            Shall Arizona woo me<br/>
            Where the meek Apache bides?<br/>
            Or New Mexico where natives grow<br/>
            With arrow-proof insides?
        </p>
         <p>
            Nay,'tis where the grizzlies wander<br/>
            And the lonely diggers roam,<br/>
            And the grim Chinese from the squatter flees<br/>
            That I'll make my humble home.
        </p>
         <p>
            I'll chase the wild tarantula<br/>
            And the fierce cayote I'll dare,<br/>
            And the locust grim, I'll battle him<br/>
            In his native wildwood lair.
        </p>
         <p>
            Or I'll seek the gulch deserted<br/>
            And dream of the wild Red man,<br/>
            And I'll build a cot on a corner lot<br/>
            And get rich as soon as I can.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song7">SIOUX INDIANS</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            I'll sing you a song, though it may be a sad one,<br/>
            Of trials and troubles and where they first begun;<br/>
            I left my dear kindred, my friends, and my home,<br/>
            Across the wild deserts and mountains to roam.
        </p>
         <p>
            I crossed the Missouri and joined a large train<br/>
            Which bore us over mountain and valley and plain;<br/>
            And often of evenings out hunting we'd go<br/>
            To shoot the fleet antelope and wild buffalo.
        </p>
         <p>
            We heard of Sioux Indians all out on the plains<br/>
            A-killing poor drivers and burning their trains,--<br/>
            A-killing poor drivers with arrows and bow,<br/>
            When captured by Indians no mercy they show.
        </p>
         <p>
            We traveled three weeks till we came to the Platte<br/>
            And pitched out our tents at the end of the flat,<br/>
            We spread down our blankets on the green grassy ground,<br/>
            While our horses and mules were grazing around.
        </p>
         <p>
            While taking refreshment we heard a low yell,<br/>
            The whoop of Sioux Indians coming up from the dell;<br/>
            We sprang to our rifles with a flash in each eye,<br/>
            "Boys," says our brave leader, "we'll fight till we die."
        </p>
         <p>
            They made a bold dash and came near to our train<br/>
            And the arrows fell around us like hail and like rain,<br/>
            But with our long rifles we fed them cold lead<br/>
            Till many a brave warrior around us lay dead.
        </p>
         <p>
            We shot their bold chief at the head of his band.<br/>
            He died like a warrior with a gun in his hand.<br/>
            When they saw their bold chief lying dead in his gore,<br/>
            They whooped and they yelled and we saw them no more.
        </p>
         <p>
            With our small band,--there were just twenty-four,--<br/>
            And the Sioux Indians there were five hundred or more,--<br/>
            We fought them with courage; we spoke not a word,<br/>
            Till the end of the battle was all that was heard.
        </p>
         <p>
            We hitched up our horses and we started our train;<br/>
            Three more bloody battles this trip on the plain;<br/>
            And in our last battle three of our brave boys fell,<br/>
            And we left them to rest in a green, shady dell.
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song8">THE "METIS" SONG OF THE BUFFALO HUNTERS</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            Hurrah for the buffalo hunters!<br/>
            Hurrah for the cart brigade!<br/>
            That creak along on its winding way,<br/>
            While we dance and sing and play.<br/>
            Hurrah, hurrah for the cart brigade!
        </p>
         <p>
            Hurrah for the Pembinah hunters!<br/>
            Hurrah for its cart brigade!<br/>
            For with horse and gun we roll along<br/>
            O'er mountain and hill and plain.<br/>
            Hurrah, hurrah for the cart brigade!
        </p>
         <p>
            We whipped the Sioux and scalped them too,<br/>
            While on the western plain,<br/>
            And rode away on our homeward way<br/>
            With none to say us nay,--<br/>
            Hurrah, hurrah for the cart brigade! Hurrah!
        </p>
         <p>
            Mon ami, mon ami, hurrah for our black-haired girls!<br/>
            That braved the Sioux and fought them too,<br/>
            While on Montana's plains.<br/>
            We'll hold them true and love them too,<br/>
            While on the trail of the Pembinah, hurrah!<br/>
            Hurrah, hurrah for the cart brigade of Pembinah!
        </p>
         <p>
            We have the skins and the meat so sweet.<br/>
            And we'll sit by the fire in the lodge so neat,<br/>
            While the wind blows cold and the snow is deep.<br/>
            Then roll in our robes and laugh as we sleep.<br/>
            Hurrah, hurrah for the cart brigade! Hurrah!<br/>
            Hurrah! Hurrah!
        </p>
      </section>
      <h2 id="song9">THE OLD SCOUT'S LAMENT</h2>
      <section>
         <p>
            Come all of you, my brother scouts,<br/>
            And join me in my song;<br/>
            Come, let us sing together<br/>
            Though the shadows fall so long.
        </p>
         <p>
            Of all the old frontiersmen<br/>
            That used to scour the plain,<br/>
            There are but very few of them<br/>
            That with us yet remain.
        </p>
         <p>
            Day after day they're dropping off,<br/>
            They're going one by one;<br/>
            Our clan is fast decreasing,<br/>
            Our race is almost run.
        </p>
         <p>
            There were many of our number<br/>
            That never wore the blue,<br/>
            But, faithfully, they did their part,<br/>
            As brave men, tried and true.
        </p>
         <p>
            They never joined the army,<br/>
            But had other work to do<br/>
            In piloting the coming folks,<br/>
            To help them safely through.
        </p>
         <p>
            But, brothers, we are falling,<br/>
            Our race is almost run;<br/>
            The days of elk and buffalo<br/>
            And beaver traps are gone.
        </p>
         <p>
            Oh the days of elk and buffalo<br/>
            It fills my heart with pain<br/>
            To know these days are past and gone<br/>
            To never come again.
        </p>
         <p>
            We fought the red-skin rascals<br/>
            Over valley, hill, and plain;<br/>
            We fought him in the mountain top,<br/>
            And fought him down again.
        </p>
         <p>
            These fighting days are over;<br/>
            The Indian yell resounds<br/>
            No more along the border;<br/>
            Peace sends far sweeter sounds.
        </p>
         <p>
            But we found great joy, old comrades<br/>
            To hear, and make it die;<br/>
            We won bright homes for gentle ones,<br/>
            And now, our West, good-bye.
        </p>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>
