<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>About the Texts</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="colonization.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="about.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="menu">
            <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="header_top.xhtml" -->
        <div class="main">
            <h1>About The Texts</h1>
            <a href="american_songs.xhtml" class="header_link"><h2>American Songs</h2></a>
            <p>The songs that make up this Corpus were all selected from Cowboy Songs and Other
                Frontier Ballads, which was first published in 1910. We choose this source because
                it was easily accessible and was already digitalized on the Project Guttenberg site.
                We selected songs whose content dealt directly with either expansion and possession
                of land or with settlers’ relationships with native peoples. You will notice that
                this corpus is significantly larger than the German songs, this is due to multiple
                historical and practical reasons. First, we had a much easier time finding and
                accessing American folk songs online. The American period of expansion was also much
                longer and has been celebrated in popular culture to this day. This accounts for a
                greater public interest in these songs, which likely contributed to higher rates of
                publication and circulation. Due to the time and resource restrictions of this
                project, we embraced this disparity and went forward with a greater amount of
                American songs. </p>
            <a href="translated_songs.xhtml" class="header_link"><h2>German Songs (English)</h2></a>
            <p>The primary source we used for the German songs was Deutsche Reiter in Südwest:
                Selbsterlebnisse aus den Kämpfen in Deutsch-Südwestafrika (German Riders in the
                Southwest: experiences from the wars in German Southwest Africa) by Friedrich
                Freiherr von Dincklage-Campe and was published in 1909. This book, which also
                includes illustrations by C. Becker, V. Huen, and O. Merté, was the inspiration for
                this project. It details the years of war and genocide from 1904 and 1907, and the
                songs and illustrations (one of which you will find on our home page) made it
                apparent that there were many themes and tropes in common with depictions of the
                American “wild west”. The second song, Das Südwesterlied, was the only song we could
                find readily available on the internet that talked specifically about soldiers’
                experiences in German Southwest Africa and that was not taken from the book. </p>
            <a href="german_songs.xhtml" class="header_link"><h2>German Songs (German)</h2></a>
            <p>We choose to include the German songs as a language reference because we did our own
                translations. However, we felt it would be more effective for our project if the
                markup of the songs was in the same language. We felt this would make our analysis
                clearer and more accessible. </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
