<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>About</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="colonization.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="about.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="menu">
            <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="header_top.xhtml" -->
        <div class="main">                   
            <h1>About Our Project</h1>
            <p>In this project, we seek to explore how nationalism is expressed through the colonial
                narrative of “folk songs” in the American West and German Southwest Afrika,
                present-day Namibia. Our team analyzed a corpus of texts to understand the
                expression of collective colonial identity in both Germany and the US, and how those
                contexts may be related. We determined that songs would be particularly effective in
                communicating the collective ideas of these groups because they are composed for the
                “common man”. Soldiers and settlers alike were supposed to identify with these
                songs, and the songs themselves were meant to solidify and encourage their concepts
                of national identity.</p>
            <p>One of the main goals in analyzing these songs is understanding what these collective
                ideas are and how they may translate to the justification of violence. In many of
                the songs, you might notice derogatory, violent, or negative language surrounding
                the cultures that were native to the land being colonized. Genocide is part of the
                history of colonization in both the US and German South-west Africa. Can songs offer
                us an insight into the mentality and hatred that supported and encouraged these
                inhuman acts of violence? Can we see expressions of nationalism that promote an
                “us-vs-them” mentality that laid the seeds of racism, xenophobia and eventually acts
                of genocide? Go to our <a href="historical_context.xhtml" class="internal"
                    >historical context</a> tab to learn more about this, and the relationship
                between the American West and the German Southwest.</p>
            <p>Through our research, we determined that colonization’s main tenets include
                possession of land, resources, bodies, and labor based upon concepts of
                racial/ethnic superiority that are driven by a love of country, unity and the “us
                vs. them” mentality. When analyzing our texts, we decided to search for five main
                themes: homeland, violence, national unity, possession, and other significant acts.
                Within these main categories, we evaluated if song lyrics were instances of, for
                example, patriotism or xenophobia. We also made note of whether these statements had
                positive or negative inflections. Through collecting data based on the metrics we
                choose to categorize, we hope to identify patterns and to compare types of
                nationalism that American and German colonizers expressed. </p>
            <p>You can read more about this and our analysis under the <a href="results.xhtml"
                    class="internal">results</a> and <a href="conclusions.xhtml" class="internal"
                    >conclusions</a> pages. </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
