<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>American Songs</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="textsCSS.css" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="other-pages.css" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="colonization.css" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="header_top.xhtml" -->
      <div class="menu">
         <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      </div>
      <div class="main">
         <h1 class="page">The Songs of Colonization - American</h1>
         <h2>About the Songs</h2>
         <p>The songs that make up this Corpus were all selected from <i>Cowboy Songs and Other
               Frontier Ballads</i>,<sup><a href="#note1" class="note">1</a></sup> which was first
            published in 1910. We choose this source because it was easily accessible and was
            already digitalized on the Project Guttenberg site. We selected songs whose content
            dealt directly with either expansion and possession of land or with settlers’
            relationships with native peoples. You will notice that this corpus is significantly
            larger than the German songs, this is due to multiple historical and practical reasons.
            First, we had a much easier time finding and accessing American folk songs online. The
            American period of expansion was also much longer and has been celebrated in popular
            culture to this day. This accounts for a greater public interest in these songs, which
            likely contributed to higher rates of publication and circulation. Due to the time and
            resource restrictions of this project, we embraced this disparity and went forward with
            a greater amount of American songs. </p>
         <section class="wrapper">
            <div id="left">
               <h2>Contents</h2>
               <a href="#song1" class="menu">1. THE BUFFALO HUNTERS</a>
               <a href="#song2" class="menu">2. THE COWMAN'S PRAYER</a>
               <a href="#song3" class="menu">3. HERE'S TO THE RANGER!</a>
               <a href="#song4" class="menu">4. TEXAS RANGERS </a>
               <a href="#song5" class="menu">5. NEW NATIONAL ANTHEM</a>
               <a href="#song6" class="menu">6. WESTWARD HO</a>
               <a href="#song7" class="menu">7. SIOUX INDIANS</a>
               <a href="#song8" class="menu">8. THE OLD SCOUT'S LAMENT</a>
            </div>
            <hr />
            <div id="right">
               <h2>Key</h2>
               <div class="section">
                  <h3>Significant Elements</h3>
                  <ul>
                     <li class="violence">Violence</li>
                     <li class="sig">Significant phrase</li>
                     <li class="homeland">Homeland</li>
                     <li class="NatUnity">National Unity</li>
                     <li class="possess">Possession</li>
                  </ul>
               </div>
               <div class="section">
                  <h3>Moods</h3>
                  <ul>
                     <li class="positive">Positive</li>
                     <li class="negative">Negative</li>
                     <li class="ambiguous">Ambiguous</li>
                  </ul>
                  <p class="info">*Hover over elements with a dotted line to see more specific
                     information about attributes.*</p>
               </div>
            </div>
         </section>
         <hr />
         <section>
            <h2 id="song1">THE BUFFALO HUNTERS</h2>
            <p> Come all you pretty girls, to you these lines I'll write,<br /> We are <span
                  class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">going to the range<span
                           class="tooltiptext">celebratory</span></span></span>
               </span> in which we take delight;<br /> We are going on the range as we poor hunters
               do,<br /> And the tender-footed fellows can stay at home with you. </p>
            <p> It's all of the day long as we go <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">tramping round<span
                           class="tooltiptext">exploring</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> In <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">search of the buffalo that we may shoot him down<span
                        class="tooltiptext">resources</span></span>
               </span>;<br /> Our guns upon our shoulders, our belts of forty rounds,<br /> We send
               them up Salt River to some happy hunting grounds. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">Our game<span class="tooltiptext">resources</span></span>
               </span>, it is the antelope, the buffalo, wolf, and deer,<br /> Who roam the wide
               prairies without a single fear;<br /> We <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">rob him of his robe and think it is no harm<span
                        class="tooltiptext">resources</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> To buy us food and clothing to keep our bodies warm. </p>
            <p> The buffalo, he is the noblest of the band,<br /> He sometimes rejects in throwing
               up his hand.<br /> His shaggy main thrown forward, his head raised to the sky,<br />
               He seems to say, "We're coming, boys; so hunter, mind your eye." </p>
            <p> Our fires are made of mesquite roots, our beds are on the ground;<br />
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">Our houses made of buffalo hides<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >resources</span></span>
               </span>, we make them tall and round;<br /> Our furniture is the camp kettle, the
               coffee pot, and pan,<br /> Our chuck it is both bread and meat, mingled well with
               sand. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">Our neighbors are the Cheyennes, the
                        'Rapahoes, and Sioux<span class="tooltiptext"
                     >coexisting</span></span></span>
               </span>,<br /> Their mode of navigation is a buffalo-hide canoe.<br /> And when they
               come upon you they <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">take you unaware<span class="tooltiptext">perpetrator:
                        native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> And such a peculiar way they have of raising hunter's hair. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song2">THE COWMAN'S PRAYER</h2>
            <p> Now, O Lord, please lend me thine ear,<br /> The prayer of a cattleman to
               hear,<br /> No doubt the prayers may seem strange,<br /> But I want you to bless
                  <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">our cattle range<span class="tooltiptext">land</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> Bless the round-ups year by year,<br /> And don't forget the growing steer;<br />
               Water the lands with brooks and rills<br /> For my cattle that roam on a thousand
               hills. </p>
            <p> Prairie fires, won't you please stop?<br /> Let thunder roll and water drop.<br />
               It frightens me to see the smoke;<br /> Unless it's stopped, I'll go dead broke. </p>
            <p> As you, O Lord, <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">my herd<span class="tooltiptext">resources</span></span>
               </span> behold,<br /> It represents a sack of gold;<br /> I think at least five cents
               a pound<br /> Will be the price of beef the year around. </p>
            <p> One thing more and then I'm through,--<br /> Instead of one calf, give my cows
               two.<br /> I may pray different from other men<br /> But I've had my say, and now,
               Amen. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song3">HERE'S TO THE RANGER!</h2>
            <p> He leaves unplowed his furrow,<br /> He leaves his books unread<br /> For a life of
               tented freedom<br /> By lure of danger led.<br /> He's first in the hour of
               peril,<br /> He's gayest in the dance,<br /> Like the <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="patriotism">guardsman of old England<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >patriotism</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Or the <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="patriotism">beau sabreur of France<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >patriotism</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> He stands our <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="loyalty">faithful bulwark<span class="tooltiptext"
                     >loyality</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Against our <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">savage foe<span class="tooltiptext"
                           >hating, xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span>;<br /> Through lonely woodland places<br /> Our children come and go;<br />
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">Our flocks and herds<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >resources</span></span>
               </span> untended<br /> O'er hill and valley roam,<br /> The Ranger in the saddle<br />
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">Means peace</span><span
                        class="tooltiptext">belonging</span></span>
               </span> for us at <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="positive">home<span class="tooltiptext">peace</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> Behold <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">our smiling farmsteads<span class="tooltiptext"
                     >land</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Where waves the golden grain!<br /> Beneath yon tree, <span
                  class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="positive">earth's bosom<span class="tooltiptext">loving</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Was dark with crimson stain.<br /> That bluff the death-shot echoed<br /> Of
                  <span class="violence tooltip">husband, father, slain<span class="tooltiptext"
                     >perpetrator: ambiguous, victim: settler</span></span>!<br /> God grant such
               sight of horror<br /> We never see again! </p>
            <p> The gay and hardy Ranger,<br /> His blanket on the ground,<br /> Lies by the blazing
               camp-fire<br /> While song and tale goes round;<br /> And if one voice is
               silent,<br /> One fails to hear the jest,<br /> They know his thoughts are
               absent<br /> With her who loves him best. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="positive">Our state<span class="tooltiptext">possessive</span></span>
               </span>, her sons confess it,<br /> That queenly, star-crowned brow,<br /> Has
               darkened with the shadow<br /> Of lawlessness ere now;<br /> And men of evil
               passions<br /> On her reproach have laid,<br /> But that the ready Ranger<br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">Rode promptly to her aid</span>. </p>
            <p> He may not win the laurel<br /> Nor trumpet tongue of fame;<br /> But beauty smiles
               upon him,<br /> And ranchmen <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">bless his name<span
                           class="tooltiptext">reverant</span></span></span>
               </span>.<br /> Then <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">here's to the Texas Ranger<span
                           class="tooltiptext">reverant</span></span></span>
               </span>,<br /> Past, present and to come!<br />
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">Our safety from the savage<span
                           class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span>,<br /> The <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="patriotism">guardian of our home<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >patriotism</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song4">TEXAS RANGERS</h2>
            <p> Come, all you Texas rangers, wherever you may be,<br /> I'll tell you of some
               troubles that happened unto me.<br /> My name is nothing extra, so it I will not
               tell,--<br /> And <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">here's to all you rangers<span
                           class="tooltiptext">reverant</span></span></span>
               </span>, I am sure I wish you well. </p>
            <p> It was at the age of sixteen that <span class="NatUnity tooltip">I joined the jolly
                  band</span>,<br /> We marched from San Antonio down to the Rio Grande.<br /> Our
               captain he informed us, perhaps he thought it right,<br /> "Before we reach the
               station, boys, you'll surely have to fight." </p>
            <p> And when the bugle sounded <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="loyalty">our captain gave command<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >loyality</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> "To arms, to arms," he shouted, "and by your horses stand."<br /> I
               saw the smoke ascending, it seemed to reach the sky;<br /> The first thought that
               struck me, my time had come to die. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">I saw the Indians coming<span
                           class="tooltiptext">other</span></span></span>
               </span>, I heard them give the yell;<br /> My feelings at that moment, no tongue can
               ever tell.<br /> I saw the glittering lances, <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">their arrows round me flew<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> And all my strength it left me and all my courage too. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="violence tooltip">We fought<span class="tooltiptext">perpetrator:
                     ambiguous, victim: ambiguous</span></span> full nine hours before the strife
               was o'er,<br /> The like of dead and wounded I never saw before.<br /> And when the
               sun was rising and the Indians they had fled,<br /> We loaded up our rifles and
               counted up our dead. </p>
            <p> And all of us were wounded, our <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">noble captain<span
                           class="tooltiptext">reverant</span></span></span>
               </span> slain,<br /> And the sun was shining sadly across the bloody plain.<br />
               Sixteen as <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">brave rangers<span
                           class="tooltiptext">reverant</span></span></span>
               </span> as ever roamed the West<br /> Were <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="solidarity">buried by their comrades<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >solidarity</span></span>
               </span> with <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">arrows in their breast<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> 'Twas then <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">I thought of mother<span
                        class="tooltiptext">longing</span></span></span>, who to me in tears did
               say,<br /> "To you they are all strangers, with me you had better stay."<br /> I
               thought that she was childish, the best she did not know;<br /> My mind was <span
                  class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">fixed on ranging and I was bound to
                           go<span class="tooltiptext">belonging</span></span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> Perhaps you have a mother, likewise a sister too,<br /> And maybe you have a
               sweetheart to weep and mourn for you;<br /> If that be your situation, although you'd
               like to roam,<br /> I'd advise you by experience, <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="negative">you had better stay at home<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >complaint</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> I have seen the fruits of rambling, I know its hardships well;<br /> I have crossed
               the Rocky Mountains, rode down the streets of hell;<br /> I have been in the great
               Southwest where the <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">wild Apaches<span class="tooltiptext"
                           >xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span> roam,<br /> And I tell you from experience <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="negative">you had better stay at home<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >complaint</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> And now my song is ended; I guess I have sung enough;<br /> The life of a ranger I
               am sure is very tough.<br /> And here's to all you ladies, I am sure I wish you
               well,<br /> I am <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">bound to go a-ranging<span
                           class="tooltiptext">belonging</span></span></span>
               </span>, so ladies, fare you well. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song5">NEW NATIONAL ANTHEM</h2>
            <p> My <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="negative">country<span class="tooltiptext">complaint</span></span>
               </span>, 'tis of thee,<br />
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">Land where things used to be<span
                           class="tooltiptext">complaint</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> So cheap, we croak.<br />
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">Land of the mavericks<span class="tooltiptext"
                     >land</span></span>
               </span>,<br />
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">Land of the puncher's tricks<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >land</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> Thy culture-inroad pricks<br /> The hide of this peeler-bloke. </p>
            <p> Some of the punchers swear<br /> That what they eat and wear<br /> Takes all their
               calves.<br /> Others vow that they<br /> Eat only once a day<br /> Jerked beef and
               prairie hay<br /> Washed down with tallow salves. </p>
            <p> These salty-dogs but crave<br /> To pull them out the grave<br /> Just one <span
                  class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">Kiowa spur<span class="tooltiptext"
                           >xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span>.<br /> They know they still will dine<br /> On flesh and beef the time;<br />
               But give us, Lord divine,<br /> One "hen-fruit stir." </p>
            <p>
               <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="ambiguous">Our father's land<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >possessive</span></span>
               </span>, with thee,<br />
               <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="positive">Best trails of liberty<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >reverant</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> We chose to stop.<br /> We don't exactly like<br /> So soon to
               henceward hike,<br /> But hell, we'll take the pike<br /> If this don't stop. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song6">WESTWARD HO</h2>
            <p> I love not Colorado<br /> Where the faro table grows,<br /> And down the
               desperado<br /> The rippling Bourbon flows; </p>
            <p> Nor seek I fair Montana<br /> Of bowie-lunging fame;<br /> The pistol ring of fair
               Wyoming<br /> I leave to nobler game. </p>
            <p> Sweet poker-haunted Kansas<br /> In vain allures the eye;<br /> The Nevada rough has
               charms enough<br /> Yet its blandishments I fly. </p>
            <p> Shall Arizona woo me<br /> Where the <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">meek
                     Apache bides?<span class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               <br />
               <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">Or New Mexico where natives grow<span
                        class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               <br /> With arrow-proof insides? </p>
            <p> Nay,'tis where the grizzlies wander<br /> And the lonely diggers roam,<br /> And
                  <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">the grim Chinese from the squatter
                        flees<span class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               <br /> That <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="positive">I'll make my humble home.<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >possessive</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> I'll chase the wild tarantula<br /> And the fierce cayote I'll dare,<br /> And the
               locust grim, I'll battle him<br /> In his native wildwood lair. </p>
            <p> Or <span class="sig">
                  <span class="positive"><span class="tooltip">I'll seek the gulch deserted<span
                           class="tooltiptext">exploring</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">dream of the wild Red man,<span
                           class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And I'll build a cot on a corner lot<br /> And get rich as soon as I can. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song7">SIOUX INDIANS</h2>
            <p> I'll sing you a song, though it may be a sad one,<br /> Of trials and troubles and
               where they first begun;<br /> I <span class="homeland tooltip">left my dear kindred,
                  my friends, and my home,<span class="tooltiptext">longing</span></span>
               <br /> Across <span class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">the wild deserts and mountains to
                           roam.<span class="tooltiptext">exploring</span></span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> I <span class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">crossed the Missouri and joined a
                        large train<span class="tooltiptext">exploring</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Which <span class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">bore us over mountain and valley and
                           plain;<span class="tooltiptexts">exploring</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And often of evenings out hunting we'd go<br /> To <span
                  class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="resource">shoot the fleet antelope and wild buffalo.<span
                        class="tooltiptext">resources</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> We heard of <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">Sioux Indians<span
                           class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span> all out on the plains<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">A-killing poor drivers and burning their trains,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>--<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">A-killing poor drivers with arrows and bow,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">When captured by Indians no mercy they show.<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> We <span class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">traveled three weeks till we came to
                        the Platte<span class="tooltiptext">exploring</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">pitched out our tents at the end of the flat,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">land</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> We <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">spread down our blankets on the green grassy ground,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">land</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> While our horses and mules were grazing around. </p>
            <p> While taking refreshment we heard a low yell,<br /> The <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">whoop of Sioux Indians<span
                           class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span> coming up from the dell;<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">We sprang to our rifles with a flash in each eye,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="solidarity">"Boys," says our brave leader, "we'll fight till we
                        die."<span class="tooltiptext">solidarity</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> They made a bold dash and came near to our train<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">And the arrows fell around us like hail and like
                        rain,<span class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: native, victim:
                     settler</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">But with our long rifles we fed them cold lead <span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">Till many a brave warrior around us lay dead. <span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p>
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">We shot their bold chief at the head of his band.<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">He died like a warrior with a gun in his hand.<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">When they saw their bold chief lying dead in his
                        gore,<span class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim:
                     native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> They whooped and they yelled and we saw them no more. </p>
            <p> With our small band,--there were just twenty-four,--<br /> And the Sioux Indians
               there were five hundred or more,--<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">We fought them with courage; we spoke not a word,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Till the end of the battle was all that was heard. </p>
            <p> We hitched up our horses and we started our train;<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">Three more bloody battles this trip on the plain;<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And in our last battle <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">three of our brave boys<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">fell,<span class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: native,
                        victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And we left them to rest in a green, shady dell. </p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <h2 id="song8">THE OLD SCOUT'S LAMENT</h2>
            <p>
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">Come all of you, my brother scouts,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And join me in my song;<br /> Come, let us sing together<br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">Come all of you, my brother scouts,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And join me in my song;<br /> Come, let us sing together<br /> Though the
               shadows fall so long. </p>
            <p> Of <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">all the old frontiersmen<span
                        class="tooltiptext">reverant</span></span></span>
               <br /> That used to scour the plain,<br /> There are but very few of them<br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="solidarity">That with us yet remain.<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >solidarity</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> Day after day they're dropping off,<br /> They're going one by one;<br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="solidarity">Our clan is fast decreasing,<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >solidarity</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="solidarity">Our race is almost run.<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >solidarity</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> There were many of our number<br /> That never wore the blue,<br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="loyalty">But, faithfully, they did their part,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">loyality</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">As brave men, tried and true.<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="loyalty">But, faithfully, they did their part,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">loyality</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">As brave men, tried and true.<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
            <p> They never joined the army,<br /> But had other work to do<br /> In piloting the
               coming folks,<br /> To help them safely through. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">But, brothers, we are falling,<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="solidarity">Our race is almost run;<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >solidarity</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> The days of elk and buffalo<br /> And beaver traps are gone. </p>
            <p> Oh the days of elk and buffalo<br />
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip">It fills my heart with pain<span
                           class="tooltiptext">nostalgic</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="sig">
                  <span class="ambiguous"><span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">To know these
                           days are past and gone<span class="tooltiptext"
                           >nostalgic</span></span><span class="tooltiptext"
                     >nostalgic</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> To never come again. </p>
            <p> We <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">fought<span class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler,
                        victim: native</span></span>
               </span>the <span class="sig">
                  <span class="negative"><span class="tooltip">red-skin rascals<span
                           class="tooltiptext">xenophobia</span></span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Over valley, hill, and plain;<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">We fought him in the mountain top,<span
                        class="tooltiptext">perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">And fought him down again.<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> It fills my heart with pain<br /> To <span class="sig">know these days are
                  past and gone</span>
               <br /> To never come again. </p>
            <p> We <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">fought the red-skin rascals<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> Over valley, hill, and plain;<br /> We <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">fought him in the mountain top,<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="nat-to-set">fought him down again<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: native, victim: settler</span></span>
               </span>. </p>
            <p> These fighting days are over;<br />
               <span class="violence tooltip">
                  <span class="set-to-nat">The Indian yell resounds<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >perpetrator: settler, victim: native</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> No more along the border;<br />
               <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">Peace sends far sweeter sounds<span
                        class="tooltiptext">peace</span></span></span>. </p>
            <p>
               <span class="NatUnity tooltip">
                  <span class="brotherhood">But we found great joy, old comrades<span
                        class="tooltiptext">brotherhood</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> To hear, and make it die;<br />
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">We won bright homes for gentle ones,<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >land</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> And now, <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">our West,<span class="tooltiptext">land</span></span>
               </span>
               <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="ambiguous">good-bye. <span class="tooltiptext"
                     >nostalgic</span></span>
               </span>
               <br /> But <span class="sig"><span class="tooltip">we found great joy, old
                        comrades<span class="tooltiptext">celebratory</span></span></span>
               <br /> To hear, and make it die;<br />
               <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">We won bright homes for gentle ones,<span class="tooltiptext"
                        >land</span></span>
               </span>,<br /> And now, <span class="possess tooltip">
                  <span class="land">our West,<span class="tooltiptext">land</span></span>
               </span>
               <span class="homeland tooltip">
                  <span class="ambiguous">good-bye.<span class="tooltiptext">nostalgic</span></span>
               </span>
            </p>
         </section>
         <h3 style="text-align:center; text-decoration:none;">Sources</h3>
         <ol>
            <li id="note1">Lomax, John A. 1. Cowboy Songs and Other Frontier Ballads, Collected by
               John A. Lomax . with an Introduction by Barrett Wendell. The Macmillan company, 1927,
               New York (State), 1927.</li>
         </ol>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
