<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusions</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="about.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="colonization.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="menu">
            <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        </div>
        <div class="main">
            <h1>Conclusions</h1>
            <section>
                <h2>National Unity</h2>
                <p>We examined national unity in the songs within the contexts of brotherhood,
                    loyalty, pride, patriotism, and solidarity. We found that there was a greater
                    expression of national unity in the German songs and that these expressions were
                    more centered around loyalty whereas the American songs had a stronger focus on
                    brotherhood and solidarity. We believe that this is once again indicative of the
                    political and social contexts of an overseas versus a continuous empire. We also
                    think this is indicative of the fact that Germans had a stronger connection to
                    Germany and the fatherland whereas the Americans were simply connected through
                    their interactions with other settlers. The Germans were serving in an army that
                    required loyalty and reverence to the empire. The same thing was not required of
                    Americans, as many of them choose to band together in and form communities.</p>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h2>Violence</h2>
                <p>We examined depictions of violence between groups of people within the songs as a
                    way to understand how the settlers and soldiers viewed acts of violence, in
                    hopes that it would give us insight into their perspective and how it connects
                    to their ideas about nationalism and their claim to the land they occupied. Many
                    instances of violence were committed upon animals, but this was also interesting
                    to us as it reveals how they perceived the land’s resources. The German songs
                    overall had less violence than the American songs, and that violence more often
                    was ambiguous on which group either the perpetrator or victim belonged to. We
                    believe this might be because they were engaging in formalized, controlled
                    military violence. We know that they raided villages, fought in wars, and
                    committed genocide but because the violence took place in a military context,
                    their relationship to it was likely very different than for settlers who
                    embraced and took pride in the idea of lawless violence.</p>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h2>Xenophobia</h2>
                <p>We coded for instances of xenophobia when native people were directly mentioned
                    in the songs in derogatory ways or hateful contexts. Although there were many
                    mentions of native people in the American songs, the overall percentages showed
                    that there were more instances of xenophobia in the German songs. We think that
                    this could be due to geographical contexts. The American settlers were no doubt
                    highly xenophobic and racist and often acted on these feelings, but why would it
                    be less of a focus in their songs? Perhaps the Germans were more focused on this
                    element because they were part of a continuous empire. Germany was separated by
                    thousands of miles of land and oceans. This was also a time when more formalized
                    theories on race and racial hierarchies became more prevalent. The Germans even
                    inflicted medical experimentation on the native peoples and sent their body
                    parts to Europe for eugenics research. Both groups made xenophobia, the fear and
                    hatred of the other, a defining aspect of their identity. However, perhaps the
                    Germans were more focused on this difference, and perhaps it served them more to
                    spread the ideas of xenophobia in the specific times and contexts of the songs
                    we selected. </p>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h2>We coded for mentions of homeland after noticing several references to both the
                    new home and the country or place of origin of the settlers. When examining
                    homeland, we wanted to see if references to homeland had positive, negative or
                    ambiguous connotations to get a better sense of what settlers’ connection to the
                    land was like. We found that the mentions of homeland in the American Songs
                    tended to be more negative, but both groups had around the same percentage of
                    positive mentions. Overall, you may notice that many songs talk about the harsh
                    conditions of the land, but when they directly reference the homeland, the
                    depictions are overwhelmingly positive. We see many examples where they say that
                    they love the home despite how harsh it is and have a sense of pride surrounding
                    it. The fact that positive depictions of the homeland are in the majority tells
                    us that settlers and colonial soldiers had an emotional connection to the land
                    and saw it as their own.</h2>
                <p>info here</p>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h2>When coding for possession, we between land, people, resources, and labor. Our
                    results show that in both German and American contexts, land and resource
                    possession was by far the most mentioned. We know that historically all four
                    categories were common, especially in German Southwest Africa but we can only
                    speculate as to why possession of people and labor were not mentioned in songs.
                    Perhaps they did not fit into the heroic narrative, or maybe there are more
                    songs not in our corpus with different themes that do mention these
                    circumstances. </h2>
                <p>info here</p>
            </section>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
