<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Historical Context</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="colonization.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="other-pages.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="header_top.xhtml" -->
        <div class="menu">
            <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        </div>
        <div class="main">
            <h1 class="page">Historical Context</h1>
            <h2>American Colonial History</h2>
            <p>North America was first colonized in 1607, with the founding of Jamestown. What
                followed was centuries of conflict between indigenous peoples and European
                colonizers which led to massive population losses and the genocide of many Native
                American tribes. Though colonization was around for a long time, the move of
                American settlers westward that has been glamorized in movies, plays, and music
                started after the revolutionary war when the U.S. was founded in 1776. The legacy of
                Westward expansion fueled by the belief in manifest destiny lasted from 1803, when
                the Louisiana Purchase was signed, until the early 1900s.<sup><a href="#note1"
                        class="note">1</a></sup></p>
            <p>Many of the settlers who moved out west in search of economic opportunity and land,
                believed in American Exceptionalism. This was the belief that the west was filled
                with empty, unused land, and that saw the native peoples as “savages” who didn’t
                know how to properly use it.<sup><a href="#note2" class="note">2</a></sup> The
                reality was of course much different, and the idea that they had a rightful claim to
                the land had detrimental effects on the native peoples. Despite this brutality, the
                idea of the American west and life on the frontier became idealized. In his article
                titled “Capturing the American West: The Cowboy Song and the Archive,” Michael
                Slowik writes: “during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, essays,
                frontier plays, and novels all helped shape the belief that the cowboy was a key
                representation of "true" American character.”<sup><a href="#note3" class="note"
                        >3</a></sup>
            </p>
            <h2>German Fantasy</h2>
            <p>The popularity of the image of the Cowboy was not contained only to the United
                States. In fact, this image became wildly popular in the entertainment industry in
                Germany. Karl May was a popular author whose books and plays depicting the American
                frontier, which he had never visited, sparked a cultural phenomenon in Germany still
                seen today.<sup><a href="#note4" class="note">4</a></sup> Among others, May’s
                depictions of the American west created collective German fantasies about
                colonization and imperial expansion.<sup><a href="#note5" class="note">5</a></sup>
            </p>
            <p>There is evidence, not only that German fascination with the American West was a
                factor in popular support for overseas expansion, but also that it influenced the
                way that Colonial Soldiers treated the Herero and Nama ethnic groups during a war
                from 1904-1907, which escalated into what is now considered the first genocide of
                the 20th century.<sup><a href="#note6" class="note">6</a></sup> The German colonial
                government looked to and actively researched American policies concerning the
                extermination of Native Americans in order to use these policies in their own
                campaign of genocide. This included the relocation of Herero, Nama, and other ethnic
                groups onto reservations. These groups were forced to give up their traditional
                cultural practices and convert to Christianity.<sup><a href="#note7" class="note"
                        >7</a></sup> Cultural artifacts and even human remains were stolen and
                shipped to European and American research institutions and museums. Survivors of the
                genocide were rounded up and sent to forced labor camps where they were subject to
                medical experimentation.<sup><a href="#note8" class="note">8</a></sup> These
                unthinkable policies were tolerated by the German people because the same practices
                in the American West were so idealized.<sup><a href="#note9" class="note"
                    >9</a></sup>
            </p>
            <h2>German Colonial History</h2>
            <p>But why was this colonial fantasy so potent in Germany? It is important to consider
                that Germany was a new nation, formed only in 1871, a century after the United
                States. Colonization was an attractive process that could at once help form a sense
                of national pride and ensure that Germany could compete with other European imperial
                nations. Germany claimed the territory of German Southwest Africa, along with other
                land parcels in the Berlin conference of 1884, seen as the beginning of the
                “scramble for Africa”, where remaining territory on the African continent was
                partitioned among European Imperial powers.<sup><a href="#note10" class="note"
                        >10</a></sup> The expansion and appropriation of land were seen as a way to
                strengthen the German nation and identity. </p>
            <p>Another method used to encourage German national identity was evoking the romantic
                depictions of courtly culture and heroic deeds of medieval Germany. For example,
                Richard Wagner’s famous four-part opera Der Ring des Nibelungen was based on ancient
                German mythology and written in 1876.<sup><a href="#note11" class="note"
                    >11</a></sup> Ballads resurfaced as popular forms of writing around this time as
                        well.<sup><a href="#note12" class="note">12</a></sup> These stories, which
                were sung in verse form set to music had been popular in medieval Germany and often
                drew upon themes of heroic knights and courtly love that would inspire a sense of
                German national pride again in the 19th century. The Folk songs and German
                Reiterlieder we are analyzing through this project are reminiscent of very similar
                themes and structures. They are songs that have a story-like structured narrative
                that romanticizes the landscape and the bravery of soldiers and settlers. They are
                written with the purpose of reinforcing new myths that glorified nationalistic ideas
                of exploration and exploitation under colonialism. </p>
            <h2>Continuous vs. Overseas Empires</h2>
            <p>These two very different histories, although one was clearly influenced by the other,
                point to very important differences in forms of nationalism and colonial rule. It is
                important to consider even the geography of the areas. The Americans were expanding
                westward in order to establish a continuous empire. Ideas of exceptionalism and the
                American dream underline that the people in this movement had a strong sense of
                belonging and subscribed thoroughly to the American National narrative. In fact,
                they embodied it. The German empire, however, was overseas. Germany and German
                Southwest Africa were separated by land and water, and this changed how people
                perceived the land. German colonization of the area was also pushed forward by
                soldiers, who were fighting in the name of the German government, rather than
                settlers fighting for their own claims to land. </p>
            <h3 style="text-align:center">Sources</h3>
            <ol>
                <li><a id="note1">Editors, History com. “Westward Expansion.” HISTORY. Accessed
                        April 24, 2020.
                        https://www.history.com/topics/westward-expansion/westward-expansion.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note2">Guettel, Jens-Uwe. “FROM THE FRONTIER TO GERMAN SOUTH-WEST AFRICA:
                        GERMAN COLONIALISM, INDIANS, AND AMERICAN WESTWARD EXPANSION*.” Modern
                        Intellectual History 7, no. 3 (November 2010): 523–52.
                        https://doi.org/10.1017/S1479244310000223.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note3">Slowik, Michael. “Capturing the American Past: The Cowboy Song and
                        the Archive.” The Journal of American Culture 35, no. 3 (2012): 207–18.
                        https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1542-734X.2012.00808.x.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note4">Galchen, Rivka. “Wild West Germany | The New Yorker.” Accessed
                        April 24, 2020.
                        https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/04/09/wild-west-germany.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note5">Zantop, Susanne. Colonial Fantasies: Conquest, Family, and Nation
                        in Precolonial Germany, 1770-1870. Post-Contemporary Interventions. Durham,
                        N.C: Duke University Press, 1997.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note6">UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK v.
                        FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, Civ. No. 17-0062 (NY, 2018)</a></li>
                <li><a id="note7">Breure, J., 1999, 'Ancestors: A challenge to the Oruuano Church of
                        Namibia', MTh dissertation, Dept. of Missiology, University of South
                        Africa</a></li>
                <li><a id="note8">UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK v.
                        FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, Civ. No. 17-0062 (NY, 2018)</a></li>
                <li><a id="note9">Guettel, Jens-Uwe. “FROM THE FRONTIER TO GERMAN SOUTH-WEST AFRICA:
                        GERMAN COLONIALISM, INDIANS, AND AMERICAN WESTWARD EXPANSION*.” Modern
                        Intellectual History 7, no. 3 (November 2010): 523–52.
                        https://doi.org/10.1017/S1479244310000223.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note10">Wallace, M., &amp; Kinahan, J. (2011). A history of Namibia: From
                        the beginning to 1990. New York: Columbia University Press.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note11">Encyclopedia Britannica. “Der Ring Des Nibelungen | Summary,
                        Characters, &amp; Facts.” Accessed April 24, 2020.
                        https://www.britannica.com/topic/Der-Ring-des-Nibelungen.</a></li>
                <li><a id="note12">Lord, Albert Bates. The Singer of Tales. Third edition.
                        Publications of the Milman Parry Collection of Oral Literature 4. Cambridge,
                        MA : Washington, DC: Milman Parry Collection of Oral Literature ; Center for
                        Hellenic Studies, 2019.</a></li>
            </ol>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
