<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Sources</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="other-pages.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="colonization.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="header_top.xhtml" -->
        <div class="menu">
            <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        </div>
        <div class="main">
            <h1 class="page">Sources</h1>
            <h2>References</h2>
            <ol>
                <li> BoseFritz, and Bruno Nettl. “German Folk Ballads.” Midwest Folklore 7, no. 4
                    (1957): 207–13. </li>
                <li> Breure, J., 1999, 'Ancestors: A challenge to the Oruuano Church of Namibia',
                    MTh dissertation, Dept. of Missiology, University of South Africa </li>
                <li> Dincklage-Campe, Friedrich Freiherr von. Deutsche Reiter in Südwest:
                    Selbsterlebnisse aus den Kämpfen in Deutsch-Südwestafrika: nach Persönlichen
                    Berichten. Berlin; Leipzig; Wien; Stuttgart: Bong, 1908.
                    http://tinyurl.gale.com/tinyurl/BzJKu0. </li>
                <li> Editors, History com. “Westward Expansion.” HISTORY. Accessed April 24, 2020.
                    https://www.history.com/topics/westward-expansion/westward-expansion. </li>
                <li> Encyclopedia Britannica. “Der Ring Des Nibelungen | Summary, Characters, &amp;
                    Facts.” Accessed April 24, 2020.
                    https://www.britannica.com/topic/Der-Ring-des-Nibelungen. </li>
                <li> Galchen, Rivka. “Wild West Germany | The New Yorker.” Accessed April 24, 2020.
                    https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/04/09/wild-west-germany. </li>
                <li> Guettel, Jens-Uwe. “FROM THE FRONTIER TO GERMAN SOUTH-WEST AFRICA: GERMAN
                    COLONIALISM, INDIANS, AND AMERICAN WESTWARD EXPANSION*.” Modern Intellectual
                    History 7, no. 3 (November 2010): 523–52.
                    https://doi.org/10.1017/S1479244310000223. </li>
                <li> Lomax, John A. 1. Cowboy Songs and Other Frontier Ballads, Collected by John A.
                    Lomax . with an Introduction by Barrett Wendell. The Macmillan company, 1927,
                    New York (State), 1927. </li>
                <li> Lord, Albert Bates. The Singer of Tales. Third edition. Publications of the
                    Milman Parry Collection of Oral Literature 4. Cambridge, MA : Washington, DC:
                    Milman Parry Collection of Oral Literature ; Center for Hellenic Studies, 2019. </li>
                <li> Slowik, Michael. “Capturing the American Past: The Cowboy Song and the
                    Archive.” The Journal of American Culture 35, no. 3 (2012): 207–18.
                    https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1542-734X.2012.00808.x. </li>
                <li> UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK v. FEDERAL REPUBLIC
                    OF GERMANY, Civ. No. 17-0062 (NY, 2018) </li>
                <li> Wallace, M., &amp; Kinahan, J. (2011). A history of Namibia: From the beginning
                    to 1990. New York: Columbia University Press. </li>
                <li> Zantop, Susanne. Colonial Fantasies: Conquest, Family, and Nation in
                    Precolonial Germany, 1770-1870. Post-Contemporary Interventions. Durham, N.C:
                    Duke University Press, 1997. </li>
            </ol>
            <h2>XML</h2>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="ALL-SONGS.xml" class="internal">All Songs (mark-up)</a></li>
            </ul>
            <h2>Relax NG</h2>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="final_schema.rnc" class="internal">Schema</a></li>
            </ul>
            <h2>XSLT</h2>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="ColonizationXSLT.xsl" class="internal">Texts</a></li>
                <li><a href="HomelandSVG.xsl" class="internal">Homeland Graph</a></li>
                <li><a href="NatUnitySVG.xsl" class="internal">National Unity Graph</a></li>
                <li><a href="PossessSVG.xsl" class="internal">Possession Graph</a></li>
                <li><a href="ViolenceSVG.xsl" class="internal">Violance Graph</a></li>
                <li><a href="Xenophobia.xsl" class="internal">Xenophobia Graph</a></li>
            </ul>
            <h2>CSS</h2>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="home.css" class="internal">Home Page</a></li>
                <li><a href="colonization.css" class="internal">Navigation Menu and Page
                        Template</a></li>
                <li><a href="textsCSS.css" class="internal">Texts</a></li>
                <li><a href="other-pages.css" class="internal">All Other Pages</a></li>
            </ul>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
